README.md, before:

# Block Editor Overview

The Block Editor is a robust web development tool that simplifies the creation of dynamic and customizable HTML layouts. Developed with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, it empowers web developers to efficiently construct content-rich pages.

## Installation
```bash
   npm i @aponahmed/blockeditor --save-dev
```

## Uses
```javascript
import layoutBuilder from '@aponahmed/blockeditor';

let LayoutBuilder = new layoutBuilder(document.getElementById("customAreaBuilder"), document.getElementById("layoutData"));

LayoutBuilder.addTemplate({
    icon: `<svg width="26" height="26" viewBox="0 0 26 26" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><rect x="0.5" y="0.5" width="25" height="25" rx="0.5" fill="white" stroke="#fff"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M19 17.5C19 17.7761 18.7761 18 18.5 18H3.5C3.22386 18 3 17.7761 3 17.5V17.5C3 17.2239 3.22386 17 3.5 17H18.5C18.7761 17 19 17.2239 19 17.5V17.5Z" fill="black" fill-opacity="0.6"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M22 19.5C22 19.7761 21.7761 20 21.5 20H3.5C3.22386 20 3 19.7761 3 19.5V19.5C3 19.2239 3.22386 19 3.5 19H21.5C21.7761 19 22 19.2239 22 19.5V19.5Z" fill="#555555"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M15 21.5C15 21.7761 14.7761 22 14.5 22H3.5C3.22386 22 3 21.7761 3 21.5V21.5C3 21.2239 3.22386 21 3.5 21H14.5C14.7761 21 15 21.2239 15 21.5V21.5Z" fill="#555555"/><rect x="14" y="3" width="9" height="11" fill="#D3D3D3"/><rect x="3" y="3" width="8" height="2" rx="1" fill="#626262"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M12 7.5C12 7.77614 11.7761 8 11.5 8H3.5C3.22386 8 3 7.77614 3 7.5V7.5C3 7.22386 3.22386 7 3.5 7H11.5C11.7761 7 12 7.22386 12 7.5V7.5Z" fill="#BBBBBB"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M11 9.5C11 9.77614 10.7761 10 10.5 10H3.5C3.22386 10 3 9.77614 3 9.5V9.5C3 9.22386 3.22386 9 3.5 9H10.5C10.7761 9 11 9.22386 11 9.5V9.5Z" fill="#BBBBBB"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M12 11.5C12 11.7761 11.7761 12 11.5 12H3.5C3.22386 12 3 11.7761 3 11.5V11.5C3 11.2239 3.22386 11 3.5 11H11.5C11.7761 11 12 11.2239 12 11.5V11.5Z" fill="#BBBBBB"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M10 13.5C10 13.7761 9.77614 14 9.5 14H3.5C3.22386 14 3 13.7761 3 13.5V13.5C3 13.2239 3.22386 13 3.5 13H9.5C9.77614 13 10 13.2239 10 13.5V13.5Z" fill="#BBBBBB"/></svg>`,
    json: `[{"type":"Area","width":100,"direction":"row","childs":[{"width":50,"direction":"column","type":"Area","childs":[{"type":"H","align":"left","more":{"customClass":""},"content":"Write Here your Heading"},{"type":"P","align":"left","more":{"customClass":""},"content":"In publishing and graphic design, Lorem ipsum is a placeholder text commonly used to demonstrate the visual form of a document or a typeface without relying on meaningful content. "}],"more":{"customClass":"","styles":{}}},{"width":50,"direction":"row","type":"Area","childs":[],"more":{"customClass":"","styles":{}}}],"more":{"customClass":"","styles":{}}},{"type":"Area","width":100,"direction":"row","childs":[{"type":"P","align":"left","more":{"customClass":""},"content":"In publishing and graphic design, Lorem ipsum is a placeholder text commonly used to demonstrate the visual form of a document or a typeface without relying on meaningful content. "}],"more":{"customClass":"","styles":{}}}]`
})
LayoutBuilder.addTemplate({
    icon: `<svg width="26" height="26" viewBox="0 0 26 26" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><rect x="0.5" y="0.5" width="25" height="25" rx="0.5" fill="white" stroke="#fff"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M19 17.5C19 17.7761 18.7761 18 18.5 18H3.5C3.22386 18 3 17.7761 3 17.5V17.5C3 17.2239 3.22386 17 3.5 17H18.5C18.7761 17 19 17.2239 19 17.5V17.5Z" fill="black" fill-opacity="0.6"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M22 19.5C22 19.7761 21.7761 20 21.5 20H3.5C3.22386 20 3 19.7761 3 19.5V19.5C3 19.2239 3.22386 19 3.5 19H21.5C21.7761 19 22 19.2239 22 19.5V19.5Z" fill="#555555"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M15 21.5C15 21.7761 14.7761 22 14.5 22H3.5C3.22386 22 3 21.7761 3 21.5V21.5C3 21.2239 3.22386 21 3.5 21H14.5C14.7761 21 15 21.2239 15 21.5V21.5Z" fill="#555555"/><rect x="14" y="3" width="9" height="11" fill="#D3D3D3"/><rect x="3" y="3" width="8" height="2" rx="1" fill="#626262"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M12 7.5C12 7.77614 11.7761 8 11.5 8H3.5C3.22386 8 3 7.77614 3 7.5V7.5C3 7.22386 3.22386 7 3.5 7H11.5C11.7761 7 12 7.22386 12 7.5V7.5Z" fill="#BBBBBB"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M11 9.5C11 9.77614 10.7761 10 10.5 10H3.5C3.22386 10 3 9.77614 3 9.5V9.5C3 9.22386 3.22386 9 3.5 9H10.5C10.7761 9 11 9.22386 11 9.5V9.5Z" fill="#BBBBBB"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M12 11.5C12 11.7761 11.7761 12 11.5 12H3.5C3.22386 12 3 11.7761 3 11.5V11.5C3 11.2239 3.22386 11 3.5 11H11.5C11.7761 11 12 11.2239 12 11.5V11.5Z" fill="#BBBBBB"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M10 13.5C10 13.7761 9.77614 14 9.5 14H3.5C3.22386 14 3 13.7761 3 13.5V13.5C3 13.2239 3.22386 13 3.5 13H9.5C9.77614 13 10 13.2239 10 13.5V13.5Z" fill="#BBBBBB"/></svg>`,
    json: `[{"type":"Area","width":100,"direction":"row","childs":[{"width":50,"direction":"column","type":"Area","childs":[{"type":"H","align":"left","more":{"customClass":""},"content":"Write Here your Heading"},{"type":"P","align":"left","more":{"customClass":""},"content":"In publishing and graphic design, Lorem ipsum is a placeholder text commonly used to demonstrate the visual form of a document or a typeface without relying on meaningful content. "}],"more":{"customClass":"","styles":{}}},{"width":50,"direction":"row","type":"Area","childs":[],"more":{"customClass":"","styles":{}}}],"more":{"customClass":"","styles":{}}},{"type":"Area","width":100,"direction":"row","childs":[{"type":"P","align":"left","more":{"customClass":""},"content":"In publishing and graphic design, Lorem ipsum is a placeholder text commonly used to demonstrate the visual form of a document or a typeface without relying on meaningful content. "}],"more":{"customClass":"","styles":{}}}]`
})

LayoutBuilder.init();
```

## JSON to HTML Building Reference with PHP and JavaScript
   - PHP [PHP-Client-for-Block-Editor](https://github.com/AponAhmed/PHP-Client-for-Block-Editor)
  ```bash 
   composer require aponahmed/blockeditor-php-client
  ```
   - JS [JS-Client-for-Block-Editor](https://github.com/AponAhmed/JS-Client-for-Block-Editor)
  ```bash 
   npm i @aponahmed/blockeditor-js-client
  ```

## Demo
A quick preview [Codepen](https://codepen.io/apon22/full/abXPPyB)

## Key Components

1. **Component**
   - The foundational building block for various elements within the editor.
   - Subclasses include specialized components like `Column`, `Heading`, `List`, and `Paragraph`.

2. **Column**
   - Facilitates the creation of column-based layouts.
   - Allows for flexible structuring of content within an area.

3. **Heading**
   - Generates heading elements, offering a straightforward way to incorporate titles and headers into the editor.

4. **List**
   - Enables the integration of lists, providing a structured and organized approach to displaying content.

5. **Paragraph**
   - Allows for the inclusion of text paragraphs, supporting rich content creation with a WYSIWYG editor.

6. **Area**
   - Serves as a container for organizing and managing components.
   - Supports features like resizing, directional changes, and context menus for enhanced user interaction.

7. **ComponentRegistry**
   - Streamlines the process of managing and accessing various components.
   - Promotes modularity and extensibility.

8. **DOMBuilder**
   - Acts as a utility for constructing and manipulating HTML elements.
   - Provides a clean and efficient way to generate dynamic content.

## Features

- **Modularity**
  - Components can be easily added or removed, promoting a modular and scalable approach to building layouts.

- **Customization**
  - Allows customization of individual components through properties, such as custom classes, padding, background, border, and border radius.

- **Context Menus**
  - Provide quick access to actions like creating new areas, inserting components, deleting areas, changing direction, resizing, and accessing properties.

- **Resizable Layouts**
  - Users can dynamically resize areas, enhancing the flexibility of the editor in adapting to various content needs.

- **Component Browser**
  - A convenient component browser facilitates the insertion of new components, streamlining the development process.

## Extensibility

The Block Editor's design emphasizes extensibility, allowing developers to enhance and customize its functionality.

- **Component Customization**
  - Developers can extend existing components or create new ones to suit specific project requirements.

- **Event Handling**
  - Custom event handling allows developers to respond to user interactions and extend the editor's behavior.

## Usage

Developers can leverage the Block Editor to effortlessly construct and customize web page layouts. Whether it's creating simple text paragraphs or intricate column-based designs, the editor offers a user-friendly interface for efficient content creation.

## Conclusion

With its comprehensive set of classes and features, the Block Editor represents a powerful tool for web developers seeking a flexible and intuitive solution for building dynamic and visually appealing web pages.

Commit message:

docs: enhance README.md with template addition examples for LayoutBuilder

README.md, after:

# Block Editor Overview

The Block Editor is a robust web development tool that simplifies the creation of dynamic and customizable HTML layouts. Developed with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, it empowers web developers to efficiently construct content-rich pages.

## Installation
```bash
   npm i @aponahmed/blockeditor --save-dev
```

## Uses
To start using the LayoutBuilder, you need to instantiate it by passing in references to the HTML elements where the layout will be rendered and where the layout data is stored.
```javascript 
let LayoutBuilder = new layoutBuilder(containerElement, dataElement);

```

### Example

```javascript
import layoutBuilder from '@aponahmed/blockeditor';

let LayoutBuilder = new layoutBuilder(document.getElementById("customAreaBuilder"), document.getElementById("layoutData"));

LayoutBuilder.addTemplate({
    icon: `<svg width="26" height="26" viewBox="0 0 26 26" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><rect x="0.5" y="0.5" width="25" height="25" rx="0.5" fill="white" stroke="#fff"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M19 17.5C19 17.7761 18.7761 18 18.5 18H3.5C3.22386 18 3 17.7761 3 17.5V17.5C3 17.2239 3.22386 17 3.5 17H18.5C18.7761 17 19 17.2239 19 17.5V17.5Z" fill="black" fill-opacity="0.6"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M22 19.5C22 19.7761 21.7761 20 21.5 20H3.5C3.22386 20 3 19.7761 3 19.5V19.5C3 19.2239 3.22386 19 3.5 19H21.5C21.7761 19 22 19.2239 22 19.5V19.5Z" fill="#555555"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M15 21.5C15 21.7761 14.7761 22 14.5 22H3.5C3.22386 22 3 21.7761 3 21.5V21.5C3 21.2239 3.22386 21 3.5 21H14.5C14.7761 21 15 21.2239 15 21.5V21.5Z" fill="#555555"/><rect x="14" y="3" width="9" height="11" fill="#D3D3D3"/><rect x="3" y="3" width="8" height="2" rx="1" fill="#626262"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M12 7.5C12 7.77614 11.7761 8 11.5 8H3.5C3.22386 8 3 7.77614 3 7.5V7.5C3 7.22386 3.22386 7 3.5 7H11.5C11.7761 7 12 7.22386 12 7.5V7.5Z" fill="#BBBBBB"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M11 9.5C11 9.77614 10.7761 10 10.5 10H3.5C3.22386 10 3 9.77614 3 9.5V9.5C3 9.22386 3.22386 9 3.5 9H10.5C10.7761 9 11 9.22386 11 9.5V9.5Z" fill="#BBBBBB"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M12 11.5C12 11.7761 11.7761 12 11.5 12H3.5C3.22386 12 3 11.7761 3 11.5V11.5C3 11.2239 3.22386 11 3.5 11H11.5C11.7761 11 12 11.2239 12 11.5V11.5Z" fill="#BBBBBB"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M10 13.5C10 13.7761 9.77614 14 9.5 14H3.5C3.22386 14 3 13.7761 3 13.5V13.5C3 13.2239 3.22386 13 3.5 13H9.5C9.77614 13 10 13.2239 10 13.5V13.5Z" fill="#BBBBBB"/></svg>`,
    json: `[{"type":"Area","width":100,"direction":"row","childs":[{"width":50,"direction":"column","type":"Area","childs":[{"type":"H","align":"left","more":{"customClass":""},"content":"Write Here your Heading"},{"type":"P","align":"left","more":{"customClass":""},"content":"In publishing and graphic design, Lorem ipsum is a placeholder text commonly used to demonstrate the visual form of a document or a typeface without relying on meaningful content. "}],"more":{"customClass":"","styles":{}}},{"width":50,"direction":"row","type":"Area","childs":[],"more":{"customClass":"","styles":{}}}],"more":{"customClass":"","styles":{}}},{"type":"Area","width":100,"direction":"row","childs":[{"type":"P","align":"left","more":{"customClass":""},"content":"In publishing and graphic design, Lorem ipsum is a placeholder text commonly used to demonstrate the visual form of a document or a typeface without relying on meaningful content. "}],"more":{"customClass":"","styles":{}}}]`
})
LayoutBuilder.addTemplate({
    icon: `<svg width="26" height="26" viewBox="0 0 26 26" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><rect x="0.5" y="0.5" width="25" height="25" rx="0.5" fill="white" stroke="#fff"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M19 17.5C19 17.7761 18.7761 18 18.5 18H3.5C3.22386 18 3 17.7761 3 17.5V17.5C3 17.2239 3.22386 17 3.5 17H18.5C18.7761 17 19 17.2239 19 17.5V17.5Z" fill="black" fill-opacity="0.6"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M22 19.5C22 19.7761 21.7761 20 21.5 20H3.5C3.22386 20 3 19.7761 3 19.5V19.5C3 19.2239 3.22386 19 3.5 19H21.5C21.7761 19 22 19.2239 22 19.5V19.5Z" fill="#555555"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M15 21.5C15 21.7761 14.7761 22 14.5 22H3.5C3.22386 22 3 21.7761 3 21.5V21.5C3 21.2239 3.22386 21 3.5 21H14.5C14.7761 21 15 21.2239 15 21.5V21.5Z" fill="#555555"/><rect x="14" y="3" width="9" height="11" fill="#D3D3D3"/><rect x="3" y="3" width="8" height="2" rx="1" fill="#626262"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M12 7.5C12 7.77614 11.7761 8 11.5 8H3.5C3.22386 8 3 7.77614 3 7.5V7.5C3 7.22386 3.22386 7 3.5 7H11.5C11.7761 7 12 7.22386 12 7.5V7.5Z" fill="#BBBBBB"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M11 9.5C11 9.77614 10.7761 10 10.5 10H3.5C3.22386 10 3 9.77614 3 9.5V9.5C3 9.22386 3.22386 9 3.5 9H10.5C10.7761 9 11 9.22386 11 9.5V9.5Z" fill="#BBBBBB"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M12 11.5C12 11.7761 11.7761 12 11.5 12H3.5C3.22386 12 3 11.7761 3 11.5V11.5C3 11.2239 3.22386 11 3.5 11H11.5C11.7761 11 12 11.2239 12 11.5V11.5Z" fill="#BBBBBB"/><path fill-rule="evenodd" clip-rule="evenodd" d="M10 13.5C10 13.7761 9.77614 14 9.5 14H3.5C3.22386 14 3 13.7761 3 13.5V13.5C3 13.2239 3.22386 13 3.5 13H9.5C9.77614 13 10 13.2239 10 13.5V13.5Z" fill="#BBBBBB"/></svg>`,
    json: `[{"type":"Area","width":100,"direction":"row","childs":[{"width":50,"direction":"column","type":"Area","childs":[{"type":"H","align":"left","more":{"customClass":""},"content":"Write Here your Heading"},{"type":"P","align":"left","more":{"customClass":""},"content":"In publishing and graphic design, Lorem ipsum is a placeholder text commonly used to demonstrate the visual form of a document or a typeface without relying on meaningful content. "}],"more":{"customClass":"","styles":{}}},{"width":50,"direction":"row","type":"Area","childs":[],"more":{"customClass":"","styles":{}}}],"more":{"customClass":"","styles":{}}},{"type":"Area","width":100,"direction":"row","childs":[{"type":"P","align":"left","more":{"customClass":""},"content":"In publishing and graphic design, Lorem ipsum is a placeholder text commonly used to demonstrate the visual form of a document or a typeface without relying on meaningful content. "}],"more":{"customClass":"","styles":{}}}]`
})

LayoutBuilder.init();
```
### Adding Templates
Templates define the structure and layout of your page components. Using addTemplate, you can add predefined layouts with custom data

```javascript
LayoutBuilder.addTemplate({
    icon: <svg-Icon>,  // A custom icon for the template (optional)
    json: <JSON-Layout-Data>  // The layout structure in JSON format
});
```

#### Example 
```javascript
LayoutBuilder.addTemplate({
    icon: `<svg width="26" height="26" viewBox="0 0 26 26" fill="none" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg">...</svg>`,
    json: `[{"type":"Area","width":100,"direction":"row","childs":[{"width":50,"direction":"column","type":"Area","childs":[{"type":"H","align":"left","content":"Write Here your Heading"},{"type":"P","align":"left","content":"In publishing and graphic design..."}]}]}]`
});
```

## JSON to HTML Building Reference with PHP and JavaScript
   - PHP [PHP-Client-for-Block-Editor](https://github.com/AponAhmed/PHP-Client-for-Block-Editor)
  ```bash 
   composer require aponahmed/blockeditor-php-client
  ```
   - JS [JS-Client-for-Block-Editor](https://github.com/AponAhmed/JS-Client-for-Block-Editor)
  ```bash 
   npm i @aponahmed/blockeditor-js-client
  ```

## Demo
A quick preview [Codepen](https://codepen.io/apon22/full/abXPPyB)

## Key Components

1. **Component**
   - The foundational building block for various elements within the editor.
   - Subclasses include specialized components like `Column`, `Heading`, `List`, and `Paragraph`.

2. **Column**
   - Facilitates the creation of column-based layouts.
   - Allows for flexible structuring of content within an area.

3. **Heading**
   - Generates heading elements, offering a straightforward way to incorporate titles and headers into the editor.

4. **List**
   - Enables the integration of lists, providing a structured and organized approach to displaying content.

5. **Paragraph**
   - Allows for the inclusion of text paragraphs, supporting rich content creation with a WYSIWYG editor.

6. **Area**
   - Serves as a container for organizing and managing components.
   - Supports features like resizing, directional changes, and context menus for enhanced user interaction.

7. **ComponentRegistry**
   - Streamlines the process of managing and accessing various components.
   - Promotes modularity and extensibility.

8. **DOMBuilder**
   - Acts as a utility for constructing and manipulating HTML elements.
   - Provides a clean and efficient way to generate dynamic content.

## Features

- **Modularity**
  - Components can be easily added or removed, promoting a modular and scalable approach to building layouts.

- **Customization**
  - Allows customization of individual components through properties, such as custom classes, padding, background, border, and border radius.

- **Context Menus**
  - Provide quick access to actions like creating new areas, inserting components, deleting areas, changing direction, resizing, and accessing properties.

- **Resizable Layouts**
  - Users can dynamically resize areas, enhancing the flexibility of the editor in adapting to various content needs.

- **Component Browser**
  - A convenient component browser facilitates the insertion of new components, streamlining the development process.

## Extensibility

The Block Editor's design emphasizes extensibility, allowing developers to enhance and customize its functionality.

- **Component Customization**
  - Developers can extend existing components or create new ones to suit specific project requirements.

- **Event Handling**
  - Custom event handling allows developers to respond to user interactions and extend the editor's behavior.

## Usage

Developers can leverage the Block Editor to effortlessly construct and customize web page layouts. Whether it's creating simple text paragraphs or intricate column-based designs, the editor offers a user-friendly interface for efficient content creation.

## Conclusion

With its comprehensive set of classes and features, the Block Editor represents a powerful tool for web developers seeking a flexible and intuitive solution for building dynamic and visually appealing web pages.
